# Project Proposal: Token-Based Meter Recharge System

*[Project Manager: Leonard Masvaya]{.underline}*

## Executive Summary

The goal of this project is to develop a \*\*prototype for a token-based
recharge system\*\* for prepaid water and energy meters. This system
will allow users to purchase tokens that can be used to recharge their
meters, enabling efficient and transparent utility management. The
prototype will be software-based, simulating the functionality of the
meters, and will include a client web app, a backend server, and a local
MongoDB database. Once the prototype is validated, the system can be
scaled to integrate with physical meters and deployed in real-world
scenarios.

\-\--

##  Objectives

\- Develop a \*\*functional prototype\*\* that demonstrates the core
functionality of the system.

\- Simulate the behaviour of prepaid meters using software.

\- Create a user-friendly web app for token purchase and balance
management.

\- Validate the system with stakeholders and prepare for scaling.

\-\--

## Project Scope

The project will focus on the following components:

1\. \*\*Backend Server\*\*:

\- Token generation and validation.

\- Communication with the meter simulator and client web app.

\- Database management (MongoDB).

2\. \*\*Meter Simulator\*\*:

\- Software-based simulation of meter functionality.

\- Token validation and usage simulation.

3\. \*\*Client Web App\*\*:

\- User interface for token purchase and balance management.

\- Integration with the backend server.

4\. \*\*Database\*\*:

\- Locally hosted MongoDB instance to store user, meter, and transaction
data.

\-\--

## Deliverables

\- A fully functional \*\*prototype\*\* including:

\- Backend server with APIs for token generation and validation.

\- Meter simulator to validate tokens and simulate usage.

\- Client web app for token purchase and balance management.

\- MongoDB database to store all relevant data.

\- Documentation for the system architecture, APIs, and user guides.

\- A demonstration of the prototype to stakeholders.

\-\--

## Project Schedule

The project will be completed in \*\*8 weeks\*\*, divided into the
following phases:

\#### \*\*Phase 1: Planning and Setup (Week 1)\*\*

\- Define project requirements and scope.

\- Set up the development environment (Node.js/Python, MongoDB, React).

\- Create a project timeline and milestones.

\#### \*\*Phase 2: Backend Development (Weeks 2--3)\*\*

\- Develop the backend server for token generation and validation.

\- Set up the MongoDB database and define schemas.

\- Implement APIs for communication with the client web app and meter
simulator.

\#### \*\*Phase 3: Meter Simulator Development (Weeks 4--5)\*\*

\- Build the meter simulator to validate tokens and simulate usage.

\- Implement communication with the backend server.

\- Test token validation and usage simulation.

\#### \*\*Phase 4: Client Web App Development (Weeks 6--7)\*\*

\- Develop the client web app for token purchase and balance management.

\- Integrate the web app with the backend APIs.

\- Test the end-to-end workflow (token purchase, validation, and usage
simulation).

\#### \*\*Phase 5: Testing and Documentation (Week 8)\*\*

\- Test the entire system for functionality, security, and performance.

\- Document the system architecture, APIs, and user guides.

\- Prepare a demonstration for stakeholders.

\-\--

## Resource Requirements

\#### \*\*Hardware\*\*

\- A laptop or desktop computer for development.

\- Local hosting for MongoDB (no additional hardware required).

\#### \*\*Software\*\*

\- \*\*Backend\*\*: Node.js (Express.js) or Python (Flask).

\- \*\*Database\*\*: MongoDB.

\- \*\*Frontend\*\*: React, Angular, or Vue.js.

\- \*\*Development Tools\*\*: Visual Studio Code, Postman (for API
testing), Git (for version control).

\#### \*\*Human Resources\*\*

\- \*\*1 Developer (You)\*\*: To handle backend, frontend, and database
development.

\- \*\*Future Team\*\*: After the prototype is approved, a team can be
built to scale the system (e.g., additional developers, testers, and
project managers).

\-\--

## Risks and Mitigation

1\. \*\*Risk\*\*: Delays in development due to unforeseen technical
challenges.

\- \*\*Mitigation\*\*: Allocate buffer time in the schedule and
prioritize core features.

2\. \*\*Risk\*\*: Inadequate stakeholder feedback during the prototype
phase.

\- \*\*Mitigation\*\*: Engage stakeholders early and regularly for
feedback.

3\. \*\*Risk\*\*: Security vulnerabilities in the system.

\- \*\*Mitigation\*\*: Implement secure coding practices and test for
vulnerabilities.

\-\--

## Budget

Since this is a prototype, the costs will be minimal:

\- \*\*Development Tools\*\*: Free (open-source software).

\- \*\*Hosting\*\*: Free (local hosting for MongoDB).

\- \*\*Hardware\*\*: Use existing equipment (laptop/desktop).

\- \*\*Future Costs\*\*: Scaling the system will require additional
resources (e.g., cloud hosting, physical meters, team salaries).

\-\--

## Success Criteria

\- Completion of a functional prototype within 8 weeks.

\- Positive feedback from stakeholders during the demonstration.

\- Validation of the system's core functionality and readiness for
scaling.

\-\--

## Next Steps

1\. \*\*Approval\*\*: Obtain sponsor approval to proceed with the
project.

2\. \*\*Development\*\*: Begin development according to the project
schedule.

3\. \*\*Stakeholder Engagement\*\*: Regularly update stakeholders on
progress and gather feedback.

4\. \*\*Scaling\*\*: After prototype validation, build a team and secure
additional resources for scaling.

\-\--

## Conclusion

This project proposes the development of a \*\*token-based meter
recharge system\*\* that can revolutionize utility management for water
and energy meters. By starting with a software-based prototype, we can
validate the concept, demonstrate its value to stakeholders, and lay the
foundation for scaling. With your approval, we can begin development
immediately and deliver a functional prototype within 8 weeks.

\-\--

## Appendix: Timeline Overview

\| \*\*Week\*\* \| \*\*Task\*\* \|

\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\--\|

\| 1 \| Planning and Setup \|

\| 2--3 \| Backend Development \|

\| 4--5 \| Meter Simulator Development \|

\| 6--7 \| Client Web App Development \|

\| 8 \| Testing, Documentation, and Demo \|

\-\--

This proposal provides a clear roadmap for developing the prototype and
demonstrates the feasibility of the project. Let me know if you need
further adjustments or additional details!
